---
id: tracking-existing-components
title: Tracking Existing Components
---

You can onboard an existing set of components to be Bit components using the `bit add` command. If you would like to [create new components](/getting-started/creating-components) we suggest you use the `bit create` command.

During the onboarding process Bit marks directories to components. For each Bit Component, Bit does the following:

- Marks the component directory.
- Sets the component ID.
- Sets the component entry point.
- Parse and resolve dependency graph.
- Create a [Component Module Link](/essentials/workspace#component-module-links).

## Recommendations

- Start tracking components bottom-up, so all components that are shared by other components are tracked first.
- Plan and arrange components in namespaces according to their functionality, similar to the way you would arrange them in folders in a project.
- Run `bit show` to see each component applied configuration.
- Use `bit start` to view component.
- Refactor `import` statements to use Component Module Links generated by Bit.

## Component Onboarding Process

### Initialize Bit Workspace

Use the `init` command to initialize a Bit Workspace

```sh
bit init
```

### Configure Workspace

Configure your `workspace.json` to fit your requirements. Read more [here](/building-with-bit/manage-workspace).

### Run the Dev Server

Run the Bit dev server to see onboarded components.

```sh
bit start
```

### Add Pre-existing Components

Each component in a Bit workspace must have all its implementation files under the same directory. A component must have an entry file, (`index.[ts|js]`) is used as the default. Angular components use `public-api.[ts|js]` as the entry file.

<Tabs
groupId="frameworks"
defaultValue="React"
values={[
{label: 'React', value: 'React'},
{label: 'Angular', value: 'Angular'},
]}>
<TabItem value="React">

```bash {4,5}
└── ui/my-component
    ├── index.tsx
    ├── my-component.tsx
    └── my-component.composition.tsx
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Angular">

```bash
└── my-component
    ├── public-api.ts
    └── src
        ├── my-component.component.ts
        ├── my-component.module.ts
        ├── my-component.spec.ts
        └── compositions
            └── my-component.composition.ts
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

To add your component to the workspace run the `bit add` command followed by the namespace. The namespace is the the component folder structure you would like to see in your workspace.

```bash
bit add ui/my-component
#or
bit add my-component --namespace ui
```

Bit will map this component's files and register them in the `.bitmap` file. This enables Bit to treat a collection of files as a single unit, a component.

In addition to that, Bit will generate a component ID, with the pattern `<namespaces>/<component-name>`. The component ID will be prefixed with the scope name once it has been exported to a remote scope (`<owner>.<scope>/<namespaces>/<component-name>`).

Learn more about [tagging components](/) and [removing components](/)

### Component Isolation Status

Bit helps you to isolate components. Run the `status` command to gain insights on how well isolated your components are.

```sh
bit status
```

### Rendering Components

To [render your component](/) - create a \*.compositions.tsx

### Documenting Components

To add [documentation](/) to your component - create a \*.docs.md

### Add multiple components at once?

To add multiple components, set the path to the common directory and use the `*` wildcard.

For example:

```bash
bit add path/to/common/dir/*
```

### Use a different entry point

The default entry point for non Angular components is `index.ts`/`index.js`. To set a different entry point:

```bash
bit add <path to component> --main <entry file>
```

Set main.js as entry point:

```bash
bit add components/ui/my-component --main main.js
```
