---
id: overview
title: Overview
---

The Tester aspect simplifies and standardizes the process of component testing.

Software testing is a way to validate that an application or a module of it, behaves as expected.

Web applications and services are often tested using a set of testing tools, where each tool plays a different role. For example, [Jest](#) can be used as a test runner and as an assertion library, while [React Testing Library](#) can be used for testing utilities.

The Tester aspect is responsible for standardizing test execution for components; That is, it standardizes the way test runners are used. Other testing libraries used for utils, mocks, etc., are irrelevant, in that sense.

Standardization is done for component testing during development (in the workspace) as well as for distribution (in a [capsule](#), as part of the component [build pipeline](#)).

## Testing in development

Bit tests all components in the [Workspace](#) using just a single command. That is true for components of all types, regardless of their specific [Env](#), and as a consequence of that, their specific [Tester implementation](#) and configuration.

```bash
bit test
```

Components can be watched for changes and retested with a single command, as well.

```bash
bit watch
```

To learn more on testing during development, please refer to [Workspace Testing](/).

## Testing during build

Testing components for distribution is done during `build` by the Bit [Builder](/).

Component build can be simulated with `bit build` and done through [Tag](/) or [Snap](/)

```bash
bit build
```

By default, Bit's pre-configured Envs includes a [Build Task](/) for testing components in the [Build Pipeline](/), each using the Env's specific test configs.

Testing during build provides the highest "external validity" by running tests on the distributable code that was generated by the Env's compiler and not by the tester's.
That way, the exact same code that will be consumed by other components, is tested before it is released. Moreover, since each component is tested in a ['capsule'](#), isolated from the rest of the workspace, tests are guaranteed to provide results that are context-agnostic and free of false-positives.

To learn more on testing during build, please refer to [Testing During Build](#).

## Configuring and implementing Testers

Testers are configured in the [Env](#) which is configured on your [Component](/). Customizing the Tester can be done by [customizing an existing env with your tester](/) or by [implementing your own Env](/).

Tester can also be implemented into Bit through few interfaces. For more information on implementing your own compiler please refer to [Implement a Compiler](/).
