---
id: overview
title: Overview
---

A Bit workspace is where modular & distributed apps are developed with a dev experience that resembles working on a CRA application.
It is a new and radical take on the monorepo concept, made with simplicity, flexibility and performance in mind.

Unlike a traditional monorepo, a Bit workspace is where components are composed together, but versioned independently.

## Key features

- **Monolith-like dev experience**: Develop and compose components with a centralized interface.

- **Elegant component configuration**: Set rules and policies on groups of components instead of manually configuring every individual one. Override configs using more specific selectors, similarly to the way styling is applied to CSS.

- **Multiple development environments**: Easily set different development environments and build workflows to different component types.

- **A rich development UI**: Visually inspect components and the workspace as a whole - all in one place.

- **An unopinionated directory structure**: Design your systems and apps the way _you_ like it. No special directory for modules or components.

## The anatomy of a workspace

### Workspace configuration

The workspace configuration file (`workspace.jsonc`) is where rules and policies are set for the workspace itself but also for each component managed by it.

These rules include component dependencies, development environments, default scopes, and so on.  
Rules are set by referencing to the relevant Bit aspect (the field) and setting it with configurations (the value).  
For example: `"teambit.react/react": { "mdx": true }`.

### Files-to-component mapping

The `.bitmap` file is where Bit maps multiple files to discrete components.
This process happens once a component is tracked by Bit (`bit add path/to/component`).

A mapping of a component will also include the following information:

- The component root directory and entry point (usually, the `index.js/ts` file).
- The component version (if a component has been versioned).
- Whether this component is [suggested to be versioned](#).

  ```json title="An example .bitmap file"
  {
    "org.extensions/environments/custom-react@0.0.9": {
      "mainFile": "index.ts",
      "rootDir": "cet/environments/dell-react"
    },
    "org.design/base-ui/search-box-with-button@0.0.5": {
      "mainFile": "index.ts",
      "rootDir": "design/base-ui/searchBoxWithButton",
      "exported" false,
      "nextVersion": {
          "version": "0.0.7",
          "message": "add debouncing",
          "username": "John",
          "email": "john@my-mail.com"
      }
    },
    "version": "14.8.9-dev.298"
  }
  ```

### Modules

The `node_modules` directory is where packages are installed, and where components place their consumable modules (symlinked or generated by Bit).

## Configuring the workspace

The workspace, as well as components managed by it, are configured in the [`workspace.jsonc`](#TODO) file.
The JSON structure is a composition of various configurable Bit aspects used by the workspace. One of these Aspects is the workspace itself.

The workspace Aspect (`teambit.workspace/workspace`) configuration consists of:

- **name** - the workspace name. <br />Example: `"name": "my-workspace"`
- **icon** - the workspace icon (displayed in the workspace UI). <br /> Example: `"icon": "https://path/to/icon.svg"`
- **description** - a description of the workspace. <br /> Example: `"description": "a design system for my organization."`
- **defaultScope** - the default scope for all components (when used with Bit Cloud, specify both owner and scope name) <br /> Example: `"defaultScope": "my-org"."my-scope-name"`
- **extensions** - component extensions to apply, by default, on all components.
- **defaultDirectory** - the default directory for imported components. <br /> Example: `"defaultDirectory": "components\{owner}\{scope}\{name}"`

Example:

```json
{
  "teambit.workspace/workspace": {
    "name": "my-design-system-workspace",
    "icon": "https://my-org.com/images/icon.svg",
    "defaultScope": "my-org.design-system"
  }
}
```

## Next steps

- [Learn how to configure other Aspects using the `workspace.jsonc`](#TODO)

- [Learn how to set configurations on groups of components.](#TODO)

- [Learn how to inspect components with the workspace UI](#TODO)
