---
id: pre-existing-components
title: Onboard Components to Bit
---

You can onboard an existing set of components to be Bit components using the `bit add` command. If you would like to [create new components](/getting-started/creating-components) we suggest you use the `bit create` command.

During the onboarding process Bit marks directories to components. For each Bit Component, Bit does the following:

- Marks the component directory.
- Sets the component ID.
- Sets the component entry point.
- Parse and resolve dependency graph.
- Create a [Component Module Link](/essentials/workspace#component-module-links).

## Recommendations

- Start tracking components bottom-up, so all components that are shared by other components are tracked first.
- Plan and arrange components in namespaces according to their functionality, similar to the way you would arrange them in folders in a project.
- Run `bit show` to see each component applied configuration.
- Use `bit start` to view component.
- Refactor `import` statements to use Component Module Links generated by Bit.

## Component Onboarding Process

### Initialize Bit Workspace

Use the `init` command to initialize a Bit Workspace

```sh
bit init --harmony
```

### Configure Workspace

Configure your `workspace.json` to fit your requirements. Read more [here](/building-with-bit/manage-workspace).

### Run the Dev Server

Run the Bit dev server to see onboarded components.

```sh
bit start
```

### Add Pre-existing Components

Each component in a Bit workspace must have all its implementation files under the same directory. A component must have an entry file (`index.[ts|js]` is used as the default.

```bash
my-component
├── index.ts
├── my-component.compositions.tsx
├── my-component.docs.md
└── my-component.ts
```

To add your component to the workspace run the `bit add` command followed by the namespace. The namespace is the the component folder structure you would like to see in your workspace.

```bash
bit add button --namespace ui
```

Bit has mapped this component's files and registered them in the `.bitmap` file. This enables Bit to treat a collection of files as a single unit, a component.

In addition to that, Bit has generated a component ID, with the pattern `<namespaces>/<component-name>`. The component ID will be prefixed with the scope name once it has been exported to a remote scope (`<owner>.<scope>/<namespaces>/<component-name>`).

Learn more about [tracking components](/building-with-bit/tracking-components) and [removing components](building-with-bit/removing-components)

:::note Tip
You can use -n which is short for --namespace
:::

### Component Isolation Status

Bit helps you to isolate components. Run the `status` command to gain insights on how well isolated your components are.

```sh
bit status
```

### Rendering Components

To [render your component](/building-with-bit/component-compositions) - create a \*.compositions.tsx

### Documenting Components

To add [documentation](/building-with-bit/documenting-components) to your component - create a \*.docs.md

## FAQ

### Can I track many components at once?

To track multiple components, set the path to the common directory and use the `*` wildcard.

For example:

```bash
bit add path/to/common/path/*
```

### I want to use a different entry point

The default entry point is `index.ts`/`index.js`. To set a different entry point:

```bash
bit add <path to component> --main <entry file>
```

```bash title="Set main.js as entry point"
bit add components/ui/button --main main.js
```
