---
id: add-components
title: Add Components
---

import { Image } from '@site/src/components/image';

A Bit component is an independent module that can be authored, maintained, shared and consumed **independently**.
It has all the information it needs to enable such autonomy. That includes its packaged distributable code, development files, history, documentation and various Bit configurations.
Most of that information is generated automatically by Bit.

:::note what do we mean by "components"?
The word “component” is ascribable to any independent feature, whether it is a simple UI primitive, a piece of logic, a data-connected component, or even a full page.
:::

## Add components

Each component in a Bit workspace must have all its implementation files under the same directory.
Moreover, a component must have an entry file `index.[ts|js]` which is used as the default. Learn how to configure a different file, here. TODO

```shell
bit add button --namespace ui/button
```

The `button` component is now tracked by Bit and managed by the workspace.

Two things have happened that are worth noticing:

#### Files to components

Bit has mapped this component's files and registered them in the `.bitmap` file. This enables Bit to treat a collection of files as a single unit, a component.

In addition to that, it has generated a component ID, following the pattern:
`<owner>.<scope>/<namespaces>/<component-name>`.

Open your `.bitmap` file, to see the generated mapping.

```json
{
    "demo-org.demo-scope/button": {
        "mainFile": "index.ts",
        "rootDir": "button"
    }
}
```

#### Components to packages

Bit has generated a package for that component in the workspace `node_modules` directory. That includes compiling the source-code using the [development environment compiler](/compiling/overview).
The **package name** will be `@demo-org/demo-scope.button`, following the pattern `@<owner>/<scope>.<namespaces>.<component-name>`.

:::note
Components using other components in the same workspace should only use the components' absolute paths, i.e, their package names. This is done to enable components to be context-agnostic.
:::

Track the UI elements with the namespace 'ui/elements'. Use the `*` wildcard to select all folders under 'ui-elements'

```shell
bit add components/ui/elements/* --namespace ui/elements
```

Both components will have their component IDs and packages generated by Bit.

### See your component

Go to the Workspace UI (https://localhost:3000) to see the newly tracked components.

### Add a component that is dependant on other components

As mentioned before, each of these tracked components has its code compiled by Bit and placed in its own package directory, inside the workspace `node_modules` directory.

Before we track 'tech-jokes-viewer', let's change its import paths from `org-demo` to your own username or organization name:

```tsx title="hero.tsx"
// REPLACE 'demo-org' WITH YOUR OWN ORGANIZATION/USERNAME
import { Button } from '@demo-org/demo-scope.ui.elements.button';
```

:::note Use a valid scope
Import paths must consist of valid username/organization and scope name.
These should be identical to the values set in the `defaultScope` property, in the `workspace.jsonc`.
:::

